Procedure for filing application for new ration card and
amendment of existing ration card

 Application can be filed at any service kiosk located at Bangalore One/ Karnataka
One/ Private franchises/ Janasnehi Kendra/ Grama Panachayath/ POS shops.

 Applicant and the family members to be added need to provide Aadhar based biometric authentication at the stage of filing application. For children below 5 years,
bio-metric authentication is not required but aadhar card is mandatory.

 No other document is required except the aadhar card.

 All the details i.e., Name, Photo, Age, Sex, Address, Mobile Number as appearing in
the aadhar card of the applicant and his family members are copied automatically to
the ration card application.

 At-least one member of the applicant’s family should have the current address of
their residence entered correctly in the aadhar card. If not, then at-least one
member of the family should get his/her address updated to their current residence
address by going to the aadhar enrolment centre.

 The mobile number to be provided should be registered in Aadhar card. If it is not
done already, then at-least one family member’s mobile should be registered in
aadhar. But providing mobile number is not mandatory.

 The applicant should correctly select his ward no in urban areas and should correctly
select his Grama Panchayath in rural areas.

 The applicant can choose any fair price shop of his choice within his Taluk/City.

 All the family members should preferably go together. If they go separately, then
application fee has to be given every time. Application fee Rs. 50/-

 The eldest female member of the household can only be selected as Head of the
household as per the provisions of National Food Security Act-2013.

 The application is sent automatically to the concerned Ward/ Grama Panchayath
official for verification through computer software.

 The concerned official visits the house of the applicant for verification and approves
the ration card if the applicant is found eligible.

 The applicant is informed through SMS at various stages i.e., Advance intimation
about date of visit of the official to his place of residence for verification of his
application, Approval/Rejection of his application.

 Ration card is delivered to the doorstep of the applicant through Speed post within
15 days from the date of filing application under SAKALA. The applicant is required to
pay Rs. 70/- to the post man.

 The procedure for filing an amendment application for existing ration cards also
remain same as above.
o The concerned member has to be present for bio-authentication at the stage
of filing application for the following:
 Addition of member to the ration card.
 For changes in Name, Age, Sex & Photo of any member and the same
have to be first updated in Aadhar card.
 For changes in Address, at-least one member of the family should
have the new address in his aadhar card.
o Any member in the ration card can carry out the following:
 Corrections in relationships among family members.
 Change in fair price shops.
 Deletion of any existing member.

 The applications for APL or Non Priority Household (NPHH) cards also can be filed in
the above process. However, applications for APL or NPHH can also be filed from any
computer having internet connection by logging into the department website i.e.,
www.ahara.kar.nic.in. The applicant and his family members have option to do OTP
based aadhar authentication for this mode of filing application. 